 	
Protect your computers (1/2)

Any unprotected computer connected to the Internet is likely to be infected within minutes! And CERN computers are permanently under attack – even right now. Therefore...

    Keep your system up to date.
    Enable the regular (e.g. monthly) automatic installation of updates/patches. If you can, use operating systems managed by CERN’s IT department which are securely configured and automatically updated for you;

    Use anti-virus software.
    The CERN anti-virus solution is even free for your home and private usage(*). Usually, infected computers at CERN need to be re-installed from scratch;
Protect your computers (2/2)

    Do not install untrusted software.
    Indeed software from untrusted sources may infect or compromise your computer... or violate copyrights;

    Run without administrator privileges.
    On today's operating systems these are just needed in special cases;

    Lock your screen with a password,
    when you leave your office;

    Contact Computer.Security@cern.ch for help
    if your computer has been compromised.
Be careful with e-mail & Web (1/2)

Cybercriminals are trying to trick you! Be cautious and...

    Do not open unexpected or suspicious e-mails or attachments,
    delete them if they do not concern you or if they appear weird. If in doubt, contact Computer.Security@cern.ch;

    Protect your passwords!
    Do not provide your passwords to Web sites you do not trust, and do not type them on untrusted computers (e.g. in Internet Cafés);
Be careful with e-mail & Web (2/2)

    Stop-think-click:
    do not click on suspicious links, but only click if you trust their origin;

    Do not install untrusted software or plug-ins.
    Indeed software from untrusted sources may infect or compromise your computer... or violate copyrights.
 	
Protect your passwords (1/2)

A cybercriminal, who knows your password, will abuse your computing account. Consequently...

    Never share your passwords with anybody,
    do not make them public, and beware of attempts to trick you into revealing them (so-called “phishing” attempts). Nobody legitimate will ever ask you for your password, not even the CERN Service Desk or the CERN Computer Security Team. However, report “phishing” attempts to Computer.Security@cern.ch;
Protect your passwords (2/2)

    Choose good passwords,
    i.e. passwords which are hard to guess and cannot be found in any dictionary. They should be at least eight characters long and contain a mixture of capital and small letters, numbers and symbols.
    Check http://cern.ch/security/passwords for more information;

    Do not reuse old passwords
    and do not use the same password for different purposes or at different sites;

    Change your passwords regularly.
    In particular when somebody else knows them, and inform Computer.Security@cern.ch, if your passwords got disclosed.
Protect your files & data

Cybercriminals are trying to find confidential or sensitive information, also here at CERN. So...

    Restrict access to your documents and folders,
    including access to Web sites and Web applications, minutes of meetings, contracts, shared file spaces, software repositories, private folders;

    Encrypt your documents and folders,
    if you have the appropriate knowledge on how to do;

    Follow the principle of least privilege
    and ensure that only people who need to access your files and data can do.
 	
Follow the computing rules (1/2)

Help us to protect CERN’s mission and reputation.

    Follow the CERN Computing Rules.
    You have committed to do so. In particular, any activity must not be illegal, political, commercial, inappropriate, offensive, or detrimental to official duties. It must not violate applicable laws in CERN's Host States. In particular, the consultation of pornographic material is not allowed. Check http://cern.ch/ComputingRules for details;

    Take responsibility.
    Everyone is responsible for securing their computer, data, systems & services;Follow the computing rules (2/2)

    Remember that the personal use of CERN’s computing facilities is tolerated
    if the frequency and duration are limited and the resources used are minimal;

    Respect confidentiality and copyrights
    of third party documents and files, like music, videos and software applications. In particular, do not share copyrighted material via file sharing applications or store them publicly on CERN file systems;

    Only run legal software applications
    Make sure that you have the proper right to use your software: it must have been obtained via legitimate channels and use a valid license. Do not run software which has negative impact on CERN’s network or computer security.

